data is generally a raw format of any information
information is nothing but the data being viewed in a structured format
Bit:
The smallest/fundamental  unit of measurement used for measuring data is  a single bit
1 Byte = 8 bits
Database :
it is the collection of related data ,organized in structured and meaningful way
Founder of Oracle, Larry Ellison
The databases in early systems were stored on tapes, which were read only format, which means once you store data.
It is impossible to delete or update or even add any new data on it easily.
DBMS:
 it is a software that controls the different manipulation of stored or to be stored data in a db
 A database management system perform the following –

Database Definition
Data Updation
Data Retrieval
Administration
Security

File System Vs DBMS:
Earlier the data were stored in a file format where the data is stored in one file or set of files. 
These files have no logical relation with one another and data is just thrown in them.
With the user needing to remember the logical relationships between them on his own.

Imagine, having multiple files, one for usernames, one for passwords, one for email ID, 
and maybe 1000’s of such individual files.

ROW NUM in SQL
The rownum clause  in SQL is used to specify the number of tuples present in a database table
Each tuple will be added a number starting from 1 to n so that the user can easily identify the number of tuple present in the table


Single Tier Architecture:
it is used for storing large data
In such systems all the required components like – the interface, Middleware, and back-end data, all on one server or platform.

Two Tier Architecture:
In such systems, the communication is between the client and server
Real-time examples for two-tier architecture 
Desktop applications excel sheets, word document, desktop games
It cannot be used for dynamic web applications where there are a large number of users and generally used for static desktop and small web applications.



Three Tier Architecture:
Database Tier – The raw data is present at this tier along with its DBMS system
Application Tier – This acts as an intermediary between the database tier and the user.
Presentation Tier – This also known as user tier. Here the user is able to view all the database results
All large dynamic web applications  present over the internet are examples 

The n tier is more customised format for corporation. Where there are n different divisions of the whole format which are related but independent of one another.



Uses of DBMS:
1.data retrival
2.data redundancy
3.data Security
4.data integrity
5.data indexing