Thus by programmers there were some additions in the ER model were suggested to reduce down on the complexity of the program, some new concepts were added which were –

Generalisation
Specialisation
Aggregation

In generalization we combine lower level entities to form a higher level entity. Thus its clear that it follows a bottom up approach.
Example –
In a bank there are two different types of accounts – Current and Savings, combine to form a super entity Account.

Specialization is opposite to that, it follows a top down approach rather.
Example –
Employee may be decomposed to further as current employee entity and ex employee entity.

Aggregation is simply when we would consider two different entities as a single entity together.
Example –
University offering course can be considered a same entity, when viewed from a student entity perspective.


Relational Data Model:

Relation: 
Representing data in the form of a table consisting of rows and columns and relation both convey the same meaning 
Student  is a relation which consists of student records.
 

Schema:
Schema is nothing but the organization of data in a table i.e in what order  the data is logically aligned 
STUDENT relation can be represented as  STUDENT (STUD_ID, NAME, PHONE, STATE, STUD_AGE).
 

Instance:
Set of unique values present in the table at present is known as relational instance.
 

Attribute:
An attribute defines the properties of a table that means what type of data that a table is storing ,these are nothing but a view of data in the form of columns
In the relation student STUD_ID, NAME, PHONE, STATE, STUD_AGE correspond to the attributes of the relation.
 

Domain :
A domain is nothing but the set of possible values that are allowed for a column in a database table 
For example, the age column in the student table is allowed to have values between 21 -32.
 

Tuple :
It is nothing but the row of the database table
The student relation is having 4 tuples or rows.
 

Null values :
There are certain situations where data may be unknown, missing or undefined which are represented by using this NULL
A null value is different from zero and any operation on null value will result in null.




























