Normalization in DBMS:

Normalization is a process of breaking a table into two smaller ones that are free from insertion and deletion and update  problems
We define Normalization as a  step-by-step process via which we reduce the complexity of a database.
 The database may have a lot redundancies

A lot of anomalies may be caused in a database because of various cause insertion, deletion and updation operation or concurrency errors.

There are 6 different normalisation benchmarks used which are –

1 NF (normal form)
2 NF
3 NF
BCNF (Boyce-Codd Normal Form
4NF
5NF (not used anymore)
6NF (not used anymore)

1 Normal Form

Prerequisite –

The relation should not have any multivalued attribute at all in it. For example, 
for Student table in the database (relation). In the phone number column there must only be one phone number (value).

How to solve –

Decompose the table into single values attributes. Either the second phone number must be deleted or it
 can be decomposed into primary and secondary number.


2NF in DBMS. The relation should be –

Already 1NF
No Non Prime attribute should be dependent on any candidate key element, which is called not having partial dependency.

3NF:
For a relation to be in 3NF form the following must hold true –

Should be 2NF already
There should not be any transitive dependency for non prime attributes
StudentID -> State
State -> Country
 they form transitive dependency as they are of format A -> B and B -> C. Thus, this forms transitive dependency is not in 3NF.

BCNF:
The BCNF is the short for Boyce-Codd Normal Form the following are the conditions for a relation to be in BCNF form –

Should be 3NF
If every non-trivial functional dependency A –> B, A is a super key

Definition of 4th Normal Form:
The table is said to be  in 4th Normal Form it is it satisfies the following properties

It should be in Boyce Codd normal form(BCNF)
It is free from multivalued dependency.
 

What is a multivalued dependency
A Dependency A->B for a single value of  A  there exist multiple values of B, then search dependencies are called as a multivalued dependency

Definition of 5-NF:
A table is said to be in Fifth Normal Form if it satisfies the following properties

If it is in fourth normal form and
It should not have join dependency


